# Defensive Bidding

## Against strong 1!C (CRASH)

Over an opponent's strong 1!C opening (that shows a strong hand {In
Precision, this is 16+ HCP.} and doesn't promise any !C length), all
bids except doubling are preemptive and deny a strong hand. Doubling
is for takeout, showing values (at least 12 HCP) and should be a hint
for partner not to preempt or compete too much, since opponents might
not have game.

The 1!D, 1!H and 1!N bids are two-suited, showing suits of the same
colour, rank and shape {Shapes being "rounded" and "pointed".}
respectively. Overcalling 1!S shows a weak holding with at least five
spades.

In response to the two-suited overcalls, advancer should assume that
overcaller holds the pair of suits in which he is shorter and bid his
preferred option. Overcaller then passes if he really holds that suit,
and otherwise correct to the lower of his two suits. Advancer can then
pass or correct to the other (now known) suit.

2!C shows a three-suited hand, after which partner chooses his
preferred suit. The 2!D and 2!H bids are made either with a six-card
holding in the higher suit (!H and !S respectively) or with 5-5 in the
remaining two. Partner is expected to bid the next suit as a
pass/correct relay.

All suit bids above (and including) 2!S are natural and preemptive.

* (1!C) -- strong, artificial (doesn't promise !C)
    * X -- 12+ HCP, takeout {The only constructive bid available.}
    * 1!D -- 5-4, same colour (!C/!S or !D/!H)
    * 1!H -- 5-4, same rank (!C/!D or !H/!S)
    * 1!S -- 5+!S, weak {Could even be a four-card !S suit at favourable vulnerability.}
    * 1!N -- 5-4, same shape (!C/!H or !D/!S)
    * 2!C -- three-suited
    * 2!D -- 6+!H or 5-5 !C/!S
        * 2!H -- pass or correct
    * 2!H -- 6+!S or 5-5 !C/!D
        * 2!S -- pass or correct


## Against multi 2!D (multi against multi)

Over an opponent's multi 2!D opening {Showing a weak-two in !H or !S,
with or without additional strong meanings.}, a double is also
"multi", usually showing either major and at least opening
strength. The usual 2!N overcall {15-18 HCP, balanced, stops in both
!H and !S.} is replaced with 2!H. The other two-level bids (2!S and
2!N) are transfers to the minor suits.

Three-level minor suit overcalls are competitive, showing at least six
cards and slightly less than opening strength. The majors show a 5-5
holding with an unspecified minor suit and are made with around eight
tricks.

* (2!D) -- multi (!H/!S weak-two or strong)
    * X -- 12+ HCP with 5+ in !H or !S, or balanced 19-22 HCP, or three-suited 19+ HCP
    * 2!H -- balanced, 15-18 HCP, stops in !H and !S
        * p -- to play
        * 2!S -- to play
        * 2!N -- transfer to !C/!D
            * 3!C -- relay, pass or correct to !D
        * ... -- as over 2!N overcall (Stayman, transfers)
    * 2!S -- !C transfer (5+!C, 13+ HCP)
        * 2!N -- 9+ HCP
            * 3!C -- minimum
            * ... -- natural, game-forcing
        * 3!C -- weak, 0-8 HCP
        * ... -- strong (11+ HCP), game-forcing
    * 2!N -- !D transfer (5+!D, 13+ HCP)
        * ... -- as after the !C transfer
    * 3!C -- 9-12 HCP, 6+!C
    * 3!D -- 9-12 HCP, 6+!D
    * 3!H -- 5+!H, 5+!C/!D, non-forcing
    * 3!S -- 5+!S, 5+!C/!D, non-forcing
    * 3!N -- 23+ HCP, balanced


After the double, if the oppoent passes, the structure is similar to a
multi 2!D opening. Bidding !H or !S is therefore a pass or correct bid
(!S being invitational in !H). Invitational hands can bid a 2!N relay,
to which partner usually responds with his suit if strong, and with
3!D if weak. After this 3!D, the structure is again similar as the
multi 2!D continuations.

All bids at the three level are game-forcing and natural. Doubling any
further opponents' bids is for penalties, except opener showing his
major suit {This is semi-takeout -- partner can pass for penalties.}.

* (2!D) -- X -- (p)
    * (p) -- 4+D, to play {Suspecting a misfit. Note that opener usually won't pass, so we often get another bid.}
    * 2!H -- pass or correct
    * 2!S -- pass or correct {Invitational if opener has !H.}
    * 2!N -- invitational, 9+ HCP
        * 3!C -- 19+ HCP, three-suited
            * 3!D -- show your short suit
            * 3!N -- to play
        * 3!D -- 12-14 HCP
        * 3!H -- 15+ HCP, 5+!H, game-forcing
        * 3!S -- 15+ HCP, 5+!S, game-forcing
        * 3!N -- 19+ HCP, balanced

* (2!D) -- X -- (2!N) {2!N showing a strong hand.}
    * X -- showing values, for penalties
    * ... -- competitive

* (2!D) -- X -- (2!H/!S)
    * (X) -- takeout
    * 2!N -- weak, 6+!C/!D
        * 3!C -- pass or correct
    * ... -- 5+ cards, game-forcing

## After opponents double a major-suit opening

After partner opens a major suit and the RHO doubles, all bids from
1!N up to a direct raise are transfers to the next higher suit. They
deny support for opener's suit, show at least five cards in the
transfer suit and are not forcing beyond completion. 

With a strong hand (at least 10 HCP), responder can bid a transfer to
the opener's suit, 2!N or redouble. Redoubling denies support and
shows a defensive hand (interested in penalising the opponents). 2!N
promises offensive four-card support, and transfering to the opener's
suit is generally made with three-card support. Also, jump shifts to
new suits promise four cards in opener's suit and 10 HCP, as well as
five cards in the suit bid.

A direct raise is therefore weaker and competitive, and jumps in
opener's suit (both a single jump raise and a jump to game) are
preemptive.

* 1!H -- (X)
    * XX -- 10+ HCP, defensive hand {Usually without !H support and interested in penalising the opponents.}
    * 1!S -- 4+!S, 6+ HCP
    * 1!N -- 5+!C, no !H support
        * 2!C -- minimum, 2+!C
        * 2!D -- minimum, natural
        * 2!H -- minimum, no !C support
        * 3!C -- invitational
        * 3!D -- 16+ HCP, natural
        * 3!H -- invitational, 6+!H
    * 2!C -- 5+!D, no !H support
    * 2!D -- 10+ HCP, 3!H
        * 2!H -- minimum (12-13 HCP)
        * 2!S -- singleton !S, game-forcing {As after Jacoby 2!N -- the rest of the bids follows the same idea.}
        * 3!H -- slam try based on distribution (long !H suit)
        * 3!S -- 5+!S, game-forcing {Again, same holds for jumps to 4!C and 4!D.}
        * 4!H -- to play
    * 2!H -- 5-9 HCP, 3!H {Could be four cards with a very defensive hand.}
    * 2!S -- 5+!S, 4+!H
    * 2!N -- 10+ HCP, 4+!H
    * 3!C -- 5+!C, 4+!H
    * 3!D -- 5+!D, 4+!H
    * 3!H -- preemptive