# Every Hand An Adventure

Every Hand An Adventure is a natural, agressive bidding system. It is
a four-card major system whose main features are a mini (10-12 HCP)
notrump and obligatory two-level preempts in all four suits.

Since 2!C is a preempt, there is no forcing opening bid. This means
that 2!N openings are often semi-balanced (and sometimes unbalanced)
and that bidding very strong opening hands may be impossible. This is
by design -- in an average tournament, the strong 2!C might be opened
once (or never), and the preemptive version is much more
common. Sacrificing the ability to bid a slam for several distruptive
openings can be favourable at matchpoints^[At IMPs, playing EHAA is
probably not a good idea.],


## Mini 1!N

The 1!N opening promises a balanced hand with 10-12 HCP. It usually
denies a five-card suit -- such hands can open either one- or two of
that suit. The exception is a 5-3-3-2 hand, with five cards in a minor
and values concentrated in the short suits.

2!C is non-promissory Stayman, with the standard meaning and response
structure.

Responder can bid a five-card suit to try to improve the contract (3!C
with clubs, two-level with anything else). This is non-constructive
and the opener is expected to pass.

With 5-5 in the minors, responder bids 2!N, after which opener chooses
his better minor. Responder can pass or invite game by raising.

All responses at the three level (except 3!C, which is a
non-constructive attempt at improving the contract) are preemptive,
showing at least six cards and not promising any values.

* 1!N -- balanced^[4-3-3-3 or 4-4-3-2, rarely 5-3-3-2.], 10-12 HCP
    * 2!C -- non-promissory Stayman
        * ...
    * 2!D -- 5+!D, to play
    * 2!H -- 5+!H, to play
    * 2!S -- 5+!S, to play
    * 2!N -- 5+!C, 5+!D
        * 3!C -- !C preference
        * 3!D -- !D preference
    * 3!C -- 5+!C, to play
    * 3!D -- preemptive, 6+!D
    * ...
    * 3!N -- only constructive bid except 2!C and higher notrump bids


## Weak twos

Any two of a suit opening^[Note that this includes 2!C.] shows 6-11
HCP and at least five cards in that suit. These openings are
_obligatory_ -- the opener must not pass with a hand that fits this
description. Therefore, passing an opening shows either a balanced
hand (with less than 12HCP) or at most five HCP.

The wide range of points and shapes that the opener might have makes
bidding game precisely impossible. Sometimes, a responder with a
decent hand will not be able to try for game^[For example, with 13
HCP, game might be possible if opener is maximal, but opposite a
minimum it is easy to get into a bad penalty.].

Non-jump bids in new suits are non-constructive, non-forcing attempts
to improve the contract. They are generally made holding at least four
cards more in that suit than in the opener's. Over an overcall, these
show values and are constructive (but still non-forcing).

With an invitational hand, responder can raise or bid 2!N (depending
on whether he has support). Jump bids in new suits are natural and
game-forcing. Because of the wide point range opener can have, these
bids are necessarily slam tries if he holds a maximum.

A jump to game in opener's suit^[Both 2!H--4!H and 2!C--5!C, but not
2!C--4!C, which is always preemptive.] is two-way, either preempting
the opponents with a weak hand or expecting to make. Opener is
expected to pass.

* 2!D -- 6-11 HCP, 5+!D
    * 2!H -- !H length, non-constructive, NF
    * 2!S -- !S length, non-constructive, NF
    * 2!N -- 14-17 HCP, no !D support
    * 3!C -- !C length, non-constructive, NF
    * 3!D -- 14-17 HCP, 3+!D
    * 3!H -- 5+!H, game-forcing
    * 3!S -- 5+!S, game-forcing
    * 3!N -- to play


## Higher preempts

Hands that can be opened at the two level should generally not be
opened below game. Therefore, all three-level preempts (4!C and 4!D as
well) are very weak, showing at most 5 HCP and at least six cards when
non-vulnerable and seven when vulnerable^[Seven and eight respectively
for 4!C and 4!D.]. The number of losers they promise depends on
vulnerability:

* Unfavourable: five or six losers
* Both vulnerable: six or seven losers
* Neither vulnerable: seven or eight losers
* Favourable: eight or nine losers^[For all of these, 4!C and 4!D show one loser less.]

Game-level preempts follow the same guidelines for suit length and
number of losers, but may be made on hands that can open with a
weak-two bid.


## One of a suit

EHAA is a four-card major system, and one-level openings promise at
least four cards in the suit opened and at least 13 HCP. Conventional
responses can be used after these, including Jacoby 2!N and Bergen
raises after major-suit openings (promising a good four-card or any
five-card support).

Notrump rebids show 13-15 HCP for a non-jump, 16-18 for a jump to NT
and 19-20 for a direct 3!N rebid.
